---
title: Sounding Gaysian
layout: essay
permalink: /sounding_gaysian.html
# include CollectionBuilder info at bottom
credits: true
# Edit the markdown on in this file to describe your collection
# Look in _includes/feature for options to easily add features to the page
---

{% include feature/jumbotron.html objectid="https://cdil.lib.uidaho.edu/images/palouse_sm.jpg" %}

## Sounding Gaysian: The Aesthetics of K-Pop in Los Angeles' Queer Asian American Nightlife Scene

I want to talk with you all today about a question. 
	The question is this: In Los Angeles’s queer Asian American nightlife scene, a scene defined by its dispersed and fractured nature, why is K-pop consistent across all corners of the scene in a way that few other things are? What is K-pop doing here?
	“K-pop” appears at first as the crux of this sentence, the active part around which the rest revolves. The implied question is: What is K-pop, as opposed to something else, doing here? Over the next twenty minutes, I hope to guide us all to a reformulated question in which K-pop fades to the background and the meaning of “doing” and “here” become the interesting parts of the question. The point of this paper is not to offer an answer to this question, necessarily, but rather to highlight the methods through which such a reframing might occur and the stakes of making such a move.
	This question began as an accident. When I began ethnographic research for my dissertation in 2022, a major goal was to try to find the gravitational center of LA’s queer Asian American nightlife scene – to find out what counted as part of the scene, and what did not. All of the possible easy answers were quickly eliminated: it was not a geographic location; it was not a genre of music; it was not a type of performance or event. What my friends and interlocutors were telling me, and what I increasingly began to feel for myself after many months of attending these events, was that this center of gravity was a feeling. If you were part of the scene, part of the community, then you would simply know that an event was part of the scene by how it felt. 
	When attempting to put this feeling into words, people would describe aesthetic qualities, and music in particular. An event feels the way it does because of the sound of the music and how it combines with other sensory experiences to produce an emergent aesthetic, a vibe, a feeling. And the common referent for all of these sensory experiences, the example that continued to come up over and over again, was K-pop – the feeling of listening to a K-pop song, or the feeling of dancing to K-pop with a group of strangers. The scene was defined by its feelings, its aesthetics and affects, and these aesthetics and affects were made material and recognizable through K-pop. 
	Some context will be helpful here. For seventeen years, Los Angeles played host to one of the largest queer Asian nightlife events in the country. This event, named GAMeBoi, was a recurring “Gaysian” dance party in the affluent and gay-dominated neighborhood of West Hollywood. GAMeBoi was a catalyst for Gaysian community not only in LA but across the West Coast; then, in 2020, it permanently shuttered. 
	I’ll be referring to this scene using “Gaysian” for the remainder of this talk, though this is just one of many labels used by people in the scene – alongside queer Asian, queer and Asian, queer Asian American, QTAPI, and many others. I do this for clarity’s sake and with reference to over half a century of women of color activism and scholarship which continues to remind us that identity categories are not simply additive; Gaysian is an emergent identity category that is not reducible to gay + Asian. It is also important to note that “Gaysian” is not a static term – the “gay” portion of the portmanteau has grown over the years to refer to a breadth of sexual and gender diverse experiences and identities which are not reducible to homosexuality.
	As LA’s nightlife venues began to open back up as the pandemic waned, a variety of small, dispersed Gaysian nightlife events began to flourish in the vacuum left behind by the loss of GAMeBoi. Each presenter was trying to create their own new futures for Gaysian nightlife, purposefully expanding the scene with regards to identity, geography, aesthetics, and accessibility. The community turned its attention to everything from warehouse raves and potlucks to open mics and dim sum drag brunches.
	And this brings us back to K-pop. The many diverse events and overlapping communities that make up what I call LA’s Gaysian nightlife scene include many which are K-pop focused. These include QT K-Pop Nights at the historic Catch One nightclub and K-Pop Nights at the downtown LA gay bar Redline. There are many other events which have smaller though significant K-pop elements, such as random play dances at the 626 Night Market or the upstairs K-pop area at Switch, a monthly West Hollywood nightclub event. The majority of LA’s Gaysian nightlife events, however, do not foreground K-pop in any significant way.
	And yet, almost every one of the many dozens of Gaysian nightlife events I have been to over the last two years has included K-pop at some aesthetic level. Whether a drag routine set to K-pop, or conversations at late-night mixers turning to the latest K-pop releases, or an acoustic K-pop cover at an open mic, or attendees posting photo montages to Instagram the morning after with K-pop as the background music; K-pop was ever present. 
	So: What is K-pop doing here? The all-too-easy answer would be that it is a simple matter of taste – that young Gaysians in LA tend to be K-pop fans and that events by and for them thus cater to their taste. Yet this is not the whole story – and, in truth, it obscures more than it clarifies. It is here that we must begin reframing our original question.
	“Asian American” and “Queer” are both complex and heterogeneous categories with roots in interracial and identity-expansive political organizing. To speak of Asian America, to speak of queerness, is not to describe categories, but to conjure images of categories – images which have concrete, material effects across historical contexts. Gaysianness is malleable. It means different things to different people, and it comes to have meaning based on the contexts in which it is deployed. Gaysianness is productively incoherent. Indeterminacy lends it power. Gaysianness is an image of a category which draws power from its incoherence, and which demands incoherence as a result of its power. 
	And yet, Gaysianness gains transient coherence through its deployment at the level of community organizing and interpersonal interaction, a transient coherence that allows for its intelligibility within those specific contexts. Such transient coherences mean that “Gaysian” functions and means and feels in ways which are contextually dependent. Put another way: the micro-level coherences of Gaysianness are defined by their affective contours, even as these affective contours might be strikingly different from context to context. Gaysianness is, thus, not an affect, but rather a mode through which affect is produced, deployed, and understood. Gaysianness can be productively understood as a genre, drawing from the work of Lauren Berlant (2008); as a genre, Gaysianness “is an aesthetic structure of affective expectation” (Berlant 2008:3). In other words: Gaysianness, as a genre of identity, is located at the interstices between aesthetics and affect and offers a mode for diverse identities to be performed into being within a shared cultural grammar.  
	Proposing that Gaysianness is a genre in some ways appears to reference Asian Americanness’ subjectless nature, as Kandice Chuh might say (Chuh 2003), or what Vivian Huang would call its “non-identitarian practices” (Huang 2022), or the subjectless critique that has been similarly called for within Queer Studies (Eng et al. 2005). Such work has proposed that shared political and aesthetic investments are the foundation for Asian Americanness and queerness, rather than identity. However, this remains a primarily object-oriented approach, locating queerness and Asian Americanness at the end-point of relationality: queerness and Asian Americanness are located in a work of literature which is related to, or in a shared political experience that is related to.
	This presents a problem for us, as there is no easily identifiable object of relationality which unifies LA’s Gaysian nightlife scene. There are pockets of the scene which congeal around shared politics or shared investment in specific musical canons, but these are always partial; in other words, Gaysianness coheres at the level of the scene, and shared political and aesthetic investments cohere at the level of bubbles within the scene. Something besides identity and politics is allowing Gaysianness to feel coherent at the level of the scene.
	In order to account for this, we must attend not to objects of relationality – identities, or musical genres, or political investments – but instead to mechanisms of relationality. The Gaysian nightlife scene in LA achieves its contingent coherences through a shared affective and aesthetic grammar. What is important is not the things that are shared between individuals in this scene but rather how that sharing works and feels. 
	A Gaysian nightlife event becomes identifiable as such through a layering of affects and aesthetics; these affects and aesthetics manifest via sensory experiences like listening to a K-pop song. And yet, a DJ playing a K-pop song at a nightclub does not necessarily make that a Gaysian event. Gaysianness lies not in the sensory or material object – an object like a K-pop song – but rather in a set of relations with those sensory and material objects. This somethingness of connection and relationality – what Sara Ahmed might call an orientation (Ahmed 2006) – is where Gaysianness builds its transient coherences. Gaysianness, as a genre, cannot be located in a body or in a song or any other material object; Gaysianness is an orientation towards the world, and a navigation of the world’s orientation towards you. 
We are now quite close to that reframing of our original question. K-pop as object, K-pop in and of itself, is not the focus here; instead, our attention must turn to K-pop as a kind of structure of feeling which allows for fleeting glimpses into the affective reality of Gaysianness in this scene. K-pop isn’t ubiquitous at Gaysian nightlife events in LA because Gaysians like K-pop; it is ubiquitous because the very Gaysianness of the scene is constructed and becomes manifest through orientations to aesthetic objects such as K-pop. It is not a matter of K-pop resulting from Gaysianness, but Gaysianness resulting from affective engagements with K-pop.
	K-pop is not, of course, the only possible space of this relationality. K-pop is uniquely prominent in this nightlife scene because of a specific set of affective orientations that may not be shared with other Gaysian communities. Just as Gaysianness is contextually dependent, so too are the affective orientations which make Gaysian communities feel Gaysian. But let’s consider that specific grouping of sounds, choreographies, and consumptive patterns we call “K-pop.” It is no coincidence that a cultural framework which is so centered around music constitutes this specific space of relationality. Scholars in both music studies and critical theory have pointed for decades to fundamental overlappings between the categories of music and affect, such that music and affect not only conjure one another but, at some level, act as different labels for the same fundamental phenomenon (e.g., Deleuze and Guattari 1994; Garcia-Mispireta 2023; Goodman 2009; Jameson 2013). In a nominally unrelated strand of research, scholars of music and Asian America have pointed to the critical importance of music and performance in forming, negotiating, and communicating Asian American identity. As Deborah Wong has argued, music is not simply a site where Asian Americanness can be identified or celebrated but also a pedagogical site where one “learn[s] how to ‘be’ Asian American” (Wong 2004:11). If, as I have been arguing, Gaysianness comes into being through affective relationality, then these two apparently disparate strands of inquiry – into the relationships between music and affect, and into the centrality of musicking to pedagogies of race and gender – begin to meld into one. 
If Gaysianness resides in this relational mode – not within individuals or objects or songs or spaces but rather in the relations between these things – then this means that this conversation isn’t really, in fact, about K-pop – or at least not only about K-pop. I am not interested, at least in this paper, in a hermeneutics of K-pop that would argue for specifically Gaysian aspects of its lyrics or harmonies or music videos. Such an approach idealizes K-pop as object rather than attending to how it functions as mechanism. My goal, rather, is to ask how K-pop as a heuristic, as an analytic, might help us better understand the world of which it is a part. Put differently: It is past time for studies of K-pop to turn from the classical analytics of cultural studies towards, instead, the interpretive frameworks of performance studies. This is partially what the reframing of our original question does – it turns us away from asking what K-pop is, and towards what K-pop does. This original question – What is K-pop doing here? – allows us to access a much more fundamental question of what here actually is. We are pushed to ask: How is K-pop necessary to understanding how and why this community sees itself as Gaysian in the first place?
And so, we have finally come full circle and arrived at our reformulated question. What is K-pop doing here?
The ubiquity of K-pop in Los Angeles’ Gaysian nightlife scene is not a representation of Gaysian “taste”; there are material ways in which the Gaysianness of the scene is a result of K-pop rather than the reverse. This does not mean that anywhere K-pop is found, Gaysianness will follow. It does not mean that knowing K-pop choreo or lyrics is a prerequisite of Gaysianness in this scene. It does mean that practices around K-pop – singing together, dancing together, viewing together, buying together – offer a way of materializing the affective orientations of Gaysianness in this scene. If Gaysianness is to be found in illusive, ephemeral strands of relationality, then K-pop in this specific scene is a dye, a stain, a coloring, which makes that invisible relationality visible. K-pop is a compass – it is a way of making recognizable the magnetic fields, the forces of relationality, which are always present, but which are rarely visible or tangible. K-pop is not the force of relationality itself, but the way that force becomes knowable. K-pop, in this scene, resides in the same affective orientations, the same interstitial spaces, as Gaysian relationality. 
If we understand Gaysianness as a genre, then we must attend to both the affective and aesthetic orientations through which it takes shape. Just as Gaysianness is best understood as a form of relationality, so too is K-pop. K-pop means differently and functions differently in various contexts, just as Gaysianness does. K-pop and Gaysianness can collapse into the same genre at the point of their enactment even as they remain distinct phenomena at the level of their ontology. The affective orientation through which relationality is performed in LA’s Gaysian nightlife scene conjures both K-pop and Gaysianness into being. K-pop as a genre is performatively enacted by how people listen, dance, and sing along to it; Gaysianness in this scene is performatively enacted by how people listen, dance, and sing together. The boundaries between identity and aesthetics begin to fray.
K-pop, more than simply a musical genre, is a set of affective orientations through which this scene comes to sound, look, and feel distinctly Gaysian.

Bibliography
Ahmed, Sara. 2006. Queer Phenomenology: Orientations, Objects, Others. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Berlant, Lauren. 2008. The Female Complaint. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Chuh, Kandice. 2003. Imagine Otherwise: On Asian Americanist Critique. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Deleuze, Gilles, and Félix Guattari. 1994. What Is Philosophy? New York: Columbia University Press.
Eng, David L., Judith Halberstam, and José Esteban Muñoz. 2005. “What’s Queer About Queer Studies Now?” Social Text 23(3–4):1–17.
Garcia-Mispireta, Luis-Manuel. 2023. Together, Somehow: Music, Affect, and Intimacy on the Dancefloor. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Goodman, Steve. 2009. Sonic Warfare: Sound, Affect, and the Ecology of Fear. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Huang, Vivian L. 2022. Surface Relations: Queer Forms of Asian American Inscrutability. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
Jameson, Fredric. 2013. The Antinomies of Realism. New York: Verso.
Wong, Deborah. 2004. Speak It Louder: Asian Americans Making Music. New York: Routledge.

